# Objects

- What do objects store?
    - Objects store a collection of key value pairs. Each item in the collection has a name that we call the key and an associated value.
- How would you explain objects?
    - Object’s key are strings or symbols, but the value can be any type, including other objects. We can create an object using object literals, that contain zero or more key value pairs separated by commas and embedded within a pair of opening and closing curly braces. Though the keys are strings, we typically omit the quotes when the key consists entirely of alphanumeric characters and underscore. If we forget to use quotes around keys, JavaScript coerces the non-string values to strings.
- How can we access specific values in an object ? How to append key value pairs into an object? What other name is given to key value pairs?
    - There are two ways 1) Dot Notation 2) Bracket Notation
    - With Dot notation we place a Dot `.`  and a key name after the variable name that references the object.
    - With bracket notation , we write the key as a quoted string and put it inside square brackets after the variable name that references that object.
    - When you have a variable that contains a key’s name, then we must use bracket notation.
    - We use bracket and dot notation to assign new key value pair to an object
    - Key value pairs are also called properties
- What happens when we declare a variable with `const` and initialize it with an object?
    - A const declaration prohibits changing what the const points to. But it does not prohibit changing the properties in the object. We can use `Object.freeze()` method to freeze the properties of an object.
- What’s the chief difference between object and primitive values?
    - Objects are complex values composed of primitive values or other objects. Objects are usually mutable: you can add, remove and change their various component values. Primitive values are always immutable; they don’t have parts that one can change. Such values are said to be atomic If a variable contains a primitive value all you can do to that variable is reassign it an entirely new value. All operations on primitive values evaluate to a new value even `0 + 0` evaluates to `0`.
- Object have multiple properties how can we iterate over objects keys, values or both?
    - We can use the `for/in` loop, it’s similar to `for` loop, but its syntax is different from it, `for/in` loop doesn’t have variable initialization, a conditional expression and a increment/decrement operator. Instead we declare a variable which, during each iteration, receives a key from the object until the object runs out of key value pairs. Then we can use that variable inside the loops body. This variable contains the name of the property that the loop is currently iterating over so we can’t use the dot notation e.g. In the second iteration the variable will be set to the second property name of object. If we tried using the dot notation it will evaluate to undefined because that variable name is not a property of the object, but it contains the property name, thus we use bracket notation. The variable name inside the bracket notation gets evaluated to a string value which is the actual property name e.g. `person[prop]` get evaluated to `person['age']`.
    - We can also use `Object.keys` method which returns objects own keys as an array. You can iterate over the keys using any technique that works for arrays. i.e. a `forEach` loop or a `for` loop.
    - Whats the downside of using `for/in` loop?
        - It just doesn’t iterate over objects own properties, it also iterates over properties of an objects prototype as well, this behavior is undesirable when you want to limit iteration to an object’s own properties i.e. properties it defined for itself not the ones it inherited. To get around this problem we can use `hasOwnProperty` method. It takes the name of property as an argument and returns true if it is the name of the calling object’s own property, false if it is not.
- What are some common operations you could perform on Objects?
    - We can use the `Object.values()` method, it extracts out the values from every own property in an object to an array and returns that. The order of the values returned can’t be predicted.
    - `Object.keys` returns an array that contain the keys from every own property of an object, where as `Object.values` returns an array that contain the values from every own property in an object. There is a third method called `Object.entries` which returns an array of nested arrays. Each nested arrays has two elements: one of the object’s keys and its corresponding value.
    - We can also merge two or more objects using the `Object.assign` method into a single object. The object that we pass as the first argument gets mutated i.e. properties from other objects passed as argument get added to the object in the first argument. The other objects don’t get mutated. If you don’t want your first argument(Object) getting mutated you can use an empty object as your first argument to the method.